cat > src/content/science/red-light-mechanisms.ts <<'TS'
import type { ScienceArticle } from "@/types/science";

export const redLightMechanisms: ScienceArticle = {
  slug: "red-light-mechanisms",
  title: "Red Light Therapy: Biological Mechanisms and Clinical Effects",
  summary:
    "Red light therapy, also referred to as photobiomodulation, is a non-invasive modality that uses specific wavelengths of red and near-infrared light to influence cellular function. Research indicates that exposure to red and near-infrared light in the 600–900 nanometer range can improve mitochondrial efficiency, modulate inflammatory signaling, and support tissue recovery.",
  body: [
    "Red light therapy, also known as photobiomodulation, utilizes specific wavelengths of red and near-infrared light to influence cellular processes. These wavelengths are absorbed by intracellular chromophores, most notably within the mitochondria, where they affect energy production and cellular signaling pathways.",
    "The primary biological target of red light therapy is cytochrome c oxidase, a key enzyme within the mitochondrial respiratory chain. Absorption of red and near-infrared photons enhances electron transport efficiency, improves mitochondrial membrane potential, and increases adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthesis.",
    "In addition to ATP production, photobiomodulation may temporarily displace nitric oxide from cytochrome c oxidase binding sites. This mechanism further enhances oxygen utilization and cellular respiration, contributing to improved tissue oxygenation and metabolic efficiency.",
    "Red light therapy has been shown to influence inflammatory signaling by reducing the expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines while supporting appropriate inflammatory resolution. This modulation plays a role in tissue repair rather than simple inflammation suppression.",
    "Near-infrared wavelengths penetrate deeper into biological tissues and may promote microcirculation through nitric oxide-mediated vasodilation. Improved circulation supports nutrient delivery, oxygen exchange, and waste removal at the cellular level.",
    "Emerging research suggests that red light therapy may support metabolic regulation, skeletal muscle recovery, and neuromuscular performance. Studies have observed reduced delayed-onset muscle soreness and improved recovery following exercise.",
    "In dermatologic contexts, red light therapy has been associated with increased collagen synthesis, improved skin elasticity, and extracellular matrix remodeling. These effects are attributed to fibroblast stimulation and enhanced cellular turnover.",
    "Photobiomodulation is generally considered safe when administered using clinically established wavelengths and power densities. Most research utilizes red light in the 630–660 nanometer range and near-infrared light in the 810–880 nanometer range. Adverse effects are rare when appropriate protocols are followed.",
    "Ongoing research continues to investigate red light therapy across multiple clinical domains, including musculoskeletal rehabilitation, metabolic health, neurological recovery, and chronic pain management. While additional large-scale human trials are needed, current evidence supports its role as an adjunctive wellness and recovery modality."
  ],
  relatedServiceSlugs: ["red-light-therapy"],
  relatedResearchSlugs: ["red-light-therapy"],
};

export default redLightMechanisms;
TS